thank you for my tamale oh okay we are
now recording
welcome to the January 27th 2004
petitions call I first things up we have
a note taker a and we'll start with the
high priority initiative updates
releases Allen alright
yeah sorry I can talk so just a quick
update on Jase IVFs httpclient
there's a pre-release out of version 42
which has all of the new async/await
goodness in it there is a picture there
that'll link to which actually if I
bring it up there yeah yeah in the
right-hand corner your you might have
some people like covering it right now
but if you move those people out the way
then you will see that version 42 the
actual bubble size is way way smaller
than it used to be so hooray for that
and that so that's just the pre-release
we will get to the final release at some
point soon and then the second thing I
wanted to talk about was that Jase ipfs
Syria 41 is coming soon the the reason
that there's a pre-release of httpclient
is that the async/await
pull requests all got merged so we are
just finishing up bits and pieces that
need to be done for the JSI PFS release
and the highlights are the async/await
stuff but also the UNIX FS version 1.5
stuff that Alex is all of the API
changes for which there are a lot and
they are breaking are in the release
issues so have a look at that
and there is a migration guide for
everyone so if you are unsure about what
is going on how I meant to change my
code from what it is now to what it
should be and then take a look at that
looking at the so I was looking today at
the interim
tests and let me show you this
again there we go cool so these are the
results of a test run in the interrupt
tester suite on the left is the new IP
FS with async await stuff merged and on
the right is the current version that's
already out and so what this is is this
is this is doing interrupt test between
two different Jas I saw two different
IPS implementations and you can see here
we've got like a J's to go and chairs to
j/s nodes here and what the tests do is
they spin up two nodes transfer a single
file between those two nodes there's no
one else involved so they're pretty
simple really but I'm looking at these
results here and you can see that you
know on the left-hand side every
everything here is taking a whole lot
less time they're used to if we look at
for instance this whoops so this 67 Meg
file this takes about eight seconds now
it used to take 27 seconds so whoa okay
way faster in some cases so these these
speeds range between increases of
between 40 and 90 percent faster which
is which is pretty amazing and it's
still like way slower than I'd like it
to be and it's a lot slower than go I
could yeah yes that's what I mean go but
there they are good improvements to be
talking about anyway so yeah and that's
all I wanted to say I thought from I've
put down here J's lipids V Jake I didn't
put it down but maybe you want to tell
us about that yes it is
the refactor is shipping tomorrow we're
putting it on a boat it's going for sure
no probably it's out gonna send it and
is that okay in terms of God profess we
think that is your program for 23 will
come out today unless we have a lot of
discussions around she bought ghosts but
the blog post looks great so please take
a look at it quickly so we can ship to
release yeah everything seems to be
stable and fixed a bunch of bugs
okay next up upgrade testing
infrastructure I have four bids here
yeah so I don't own this one updates it
runs here well I'm tight from my site is
that infrastructure is getting more
stable right now you can easily start
like 500 or 1000 test plan instances on
kubernetes it's documented and it's very
straightforward just like a few steps
that you need to run and wait for your
cluster to come up and be running where
I go above 500 test plan instances on
the DHT test I'm starting to see some
timeout issues but it's still not clear
whether this is infrared light or
whether it is test related for example I
see that we have some retry mechanism
there and the retry doesn't seem to be
working because even though we retry the
dialer has some back of time so actually
we're not really trying any dials so
yeah if someone knows more about the DHT
test plan somehow there would be
appreciated or I'll be looking at that
in the coming days as well yeah that's
pretty mature from my site yes Steven
you want to take cover there more
updates on the intro okay I yeah so we
have two other updates the testing
there's progress underway to test
multiple versions of the same time and
there's also a patch underway to store
assets and other logs locally currently
this patch of only well it only worked
for dr. storm local hopefully we can
report this to committees pretty soon
and it basically just saw all three logs
in the folder and it's a nice way then I
say what that saying cat all together
run them to Jake to you and do whatever
you wanted with them oh yeah please test
these and review them that's all I have
to say here moving on to content routing
Jacob give update yeah
yeah so we've gone through and created
all of the high-level like epic level or
feature set issues in there all in
github with notes on all of the design
notes that we've worked through and
welles testing scenarios and what
success means so this week we're going
to be working on breaking down the
remainder of the work in a smaller task
is smaller tasks and estimating those
out so that we have a better idea of
when we believe that everything will
land so we will create additional issues
as we go through to attempt to parallel
ice at as much as possible and get this
thing shipped yeah I've wanted to update
the content routing plan has seen many
updates so before I just look through it
again the structure is mostly the same
but fleshed out a couple of issues yeah
okay moving on to one other updates
there cutting yeah so I have a cadonia
query logic PR that passes all the local
tests seems to mostly do the things that
we want but we need to do some tests
groaning and seeing see what's going on
we put together
I was working Stephen last week a lot we
could see either some like graphs to
kind of see like what the state of the
connections of the network look like
because they were seeing lots of like
disjointed networks which is pretty
concerning and maybe these are just
occurring it like very small network
sizes it's easier to occur but the test
is gonna have some issues like multiple
bootstrappers
can call it the way they're set up right
now will cause destructed networks or
the connection manner the way the
connection 100 is trimming may also
cause the disjointed networks so we're
gonna have to figure out what we want to
do there both in terms of
to see if the query logic is correct and
then second and then figuring out what
we want to do about this accidentally
creating distracted networks problem the
Dean and Anton if you both have time
today they do get together and try to
like uh and how could you start adding
on using kubernetes it hasn't happened
yeah he he gave me some pointers already
but that was in the last week so that
was my first step for today is see if I
can get historic that's too late for
your time yeah we can totally do it
tomorrow go over the Rigbys it's
literally less than ten commands and we
can go over in detail tomorrow if you
have any questions I think the main is
just you still need to count right Anton
or sorry Adina
I'm glad n sunset okay oh okay okay so
yeah start with that and then okay okay
moving on to subdomain gateways idle
good news is that it's mostly on the
basic functionality is implemented the
remaining part is writing tests and dog
finalizing stuff
the only thing maybe that's more for
like a separate review but I think it's
small enough to mention here is that
like under gateway section we got we
historically had this thing called path
prefixes it was not documented for a
long time and all it like provided dogs
that it's about like this header and the
problem sort of like a problem is that
we are reusing this disliked name in
those like hostname specific sections
but we use it for a kind of totally
different feature which is not related
to this header it's not wild up so
something that remains to be decided
maybe like in I think I'll write write
those concerns up and ask you for a
review do we want to like basically to
split it into two things or clarified
the docs
that's like the only remaining thing
yesterday so I think this actually came
from my mistake I misunderstood what the
original teacher did so that's why I
admit it that way thinking oh yeah this
is the same thing we probably don't
actually eat the new feature or the new
versions like the prefixes in weight but
what we could talk with that offline oh
that's actually super useful to me then
oh yeah yeah I'll take another pass and
at this push those changes and then ask
you
yeah we can also call the game spaces is
there a version of this plant for a
difference I do oh man it's like the
next thing right after I like finish
this implement the same thing I just
like do it twice do it twice nice thank
you yep yep okay
so that covers some of gateways
it's what updates I see dirt typing no
it's not me it's my my doppelganger over
there in Germany so big swap updates
basically I've been running some tests
against test rounds so I wanna give a
shout-out to Anton and Stephen and round
for getting that into a state where you
can actually run some tests and try out
different variables it's pretty pretty
exciting so I've managed to produce a
few graphs that I'm gonna I'm gonna wait
or hold off on showing until next week
so there's a little teaser for you but I
just want to make sure that all my tests
are running consistently and then I can
show some some decent comparisons the
good news is that it seems like the
changes we've been making are effective
and the got some pretty big improvements
over the old bits but can I give a
spoiler so unlike the previous version
we're having more seeds would make
things slow down in the new version
having more seeds makes things speed up
slightly yeah that's a big big
improvement
okay async/await refractor already had a
massive read this but but do we have
this place Oh releases okay any
additional updates people on talk about
no really I have put at the end of their
let's maybe remove this initiative now
because I think the updates will be like
there won't really be anything else
we're looking to maybe release JSI BFS
release candidate this week so there's
not really going to be much here from
now on anyway so let's just remove it
unless there's any location this is such
a big deal yes we rarely get to remove
initiatives from my list yeah it's one
of the very few awesome endeavors the
one of the very few I guess you can call
it epics but issues that had an awesome
like that endeavor labels that actually
ever got classes okay Peter streaming
yes
connected news for last so I really
really was hoping that I'll be able to
show the actual thing today during
lightning talks but after a marathon
session turned out that yeah it's not
going to happen so I am having a lot of
trouble with not going fast enough for
test purposes and I have one more idea
to try that will unfortunately require
another like rewrite of the of the
insides and in fact you know like Yeti
Sonic's three hours I'll just cut that
scope and publish what I have which is
already pretty good basically allows you
to test any type of combination of
changing parameters with pre chunking
and sizing and stuff like that entirely
outside of the go ipfs ecosystem so you
so you basically can experiment with
with different chemicals and stuff like
that without him turret whole bunch of
code
and unfortunately it is a little slower
than going theaters which was definitely
is definitely going to be showstopper
but I will help you with this further
down the road
so next step is to put everything back
together can do it was today for this
day and have it actually available
tomorrow for people to play with
would you like to pair on the
performance profile it's a lot of
interesting good scotches yeah I
basically was going back and forth with
with Eric on a lot of things and have
you done people profiles around like oh
you have allocations okay yes yes a
little bit I think I it's like it's it's
one of those things that I it's not that
I'm doing things inefficiently like my
allocation profile is essentially
non-existent I pretty much okay the huge
block in the beginning I just do a lot
of stuff that doesn't have to do because
of the scan for the repeat bytes and
stuff like that you know the one thing
that I'm going to try is to basically
add more hints of when can we skip stuff
so we can you know so we can jump ahead
and jump backwards and things like that
we can within the power that we have and
even that doesn't work satisfactory I'll
just leave it for later on yeah then we
will need to pair up but I want to
basically get the UI with the tests
solidified essential that the Interop so
to speak so that this cannot look out of
the way and then circle back to I'd like
to note it like slightly slower than
like fixed based or fix chunking is not
really an issue it's like we expect any
country based on TV studies or Olympics
junkie but even I thought so yeah well
it it is about so right now it is about
was also I'm getting 200 next ipfs per
second and this is about hundred and
forty so it's not horrible but it is
horrible it is horrible for desperate I
needed to go like about five times
faster so there are a lot of extra
things that I haven't done which are
basically because I know everything this
single-threaded
everything goes into a single bite this
also started like here
Bella's moved move to other course
because of how functional it is
basically there is very little state
best around but this again is out of my
capital zone for now so I haven't
started on that but yeah I wouldn't try
to make it to like at the moment were
trying to prove this out so like don't
spend too much time optimizing it if we
need to we can rent a PC machine and run
on a piece of machine I'll give you a
question a second the point here is that
for for the purpose of figuring out what
works and what doesn't
ah I see data sets you need a lot of
repeats tests over and over again with
different parameters and that part basic
if I don't get it fascinating usually it
will take up a year we can do that okay
yes on earth-2 to hopefully really
quickly questions it you said that you
might have something ready by tomorrow
in what form does it come tomorrow like
is it a website is it repo or something
it is it is a CLI tool that reads from
standardin
gotcha and then I don't have any I don't
like do you have a replay where you're
putting all of this there will be the
moment the moment I said yes I I horse
dancing yet okay
because because the you a question the
the you I kept changing every time that
there is like oh and yet I need
this other flag abuse others like so
that's why I pushed yeah yeah but I
think I was what is it's good just to
have something yeah then people would
start looking at it and like pointing
things out but yeah I understand it's
changing constantly but doesn't matter
the cases and bus factor and like if you
know it needs to be on github we need to
everybody even used to be able to access
and it be work you'll be working in the
open unless it specifically is private
no it's not private they just oh thank
you okay thank you see okay now we have
the backlog of other initiatives the
only updates here that I know of is the
distributed sick line yeah yeah so we're
just going to met with a browser
connectivity group last week and so
we're going to prioritize that work for
the year for a jail over to be and
figure out if this is the next big thing
cycle
so we're evaluating that and will change
things accordingly okay I moldy hash
keys and block stores actually have a
question
Hector I see her here Lucky's asking me
my own so like what was just get to
looking like in terms of like creating a
a migration for this I remember you said
that you're gonna get to it maybe
potentially like early February end of
January I can't hear you yes once again
I find it after the call
awesome okay thank you let's see design
review proposals Alex would you like to
propose anything around like raw leaves
and/or like links Isis I think it might
be good to have discussion about those
yeah well we were talking about tea size
field of the dyed links basically like
it's an unreliable field it's a vector
for attack it can be expensive to
generate depending on the api's that
you're using but yeah so i proposed
deprecating it because we don't have to
remove it because you to help red spots
have a zero value it'll come back a zero
for them specifying it's an optional
field but yeah it's given points out you
know a 15-2 lien might break and that
kind of thing I just feel like if we had
a call to just talk about this we could
quickly sync up on all the problems like
my perspective on this is it's been ever
ever and one who rely in it anyways so I
don't want to say well you know it's not
you but I feel like you'd be happy you
might want have a special others unless
you don't produce necessary well I mean
can refactor how Joe's impulse as it
likes that the problem that we have is
that the IPL dapi is don't tell you the
serialize size of a thing after you see
realized it said the only way to find
out how is what you need for the for the
end to know the size of the thing that
you're linking to the a way to do now is
to serialize it and then pass it to IP
OD see the CID but from IP LD and then
you have the serial Oh sighs from your
own serializing so you end up
serializing it twice which is 17 years
but we've kind of like we've talked in
the past about refactoring the important
to not use IP LD to just use like the I
feel D tag PB module to you know know
how to read and write the protobufs but
to not actually use IP o D itself to do
the serialization for this kind of
reason yeah I know you're trying to
integrate
new system and it's tricky okay I but
ideally we should probably actually
schedule call for us do you thinking to
try to find time that one can meet yeah
sure is it if anyone is interested in
discussing link sizes and act bb
please put your name down here and let's
go or make a call another thing was raw
leaves so you can specify a raw leaves
argument the importer and that will give
you tagged to IP oh dear or nodes for
the leaves of your dog which don't have
a pro buffer up around them so slightly
more efficient it's an option like maybe
it should be an on by default
we could probably schedule them all
together but just put on your name on
both lists if you're interested in this
and else would you find the issues where
you propose this thing so we can put
them here and yeah just going back async
over these discussions will take a while
so we have any because if it's
discussion of I do actually out get
everyone on the same page because I know
I missing a lot of state on how like the
motivation for why we're doing this
probably looking to this okay that
covers sign of you proposals as far as
any no one listens has another one I'm
not sure whether here are a different
venue is appropriate but we're gonna
have to have some discussions about the
connection manager trimming stuff and
like what approach we want to take to
dealing with that there's a few options
available
I don't put some design proposal if
that's just the content routing group
having a call tomorrow yeah let's talk
about that in the call tomorrow okay
that is everything there bloggers asks
questions anything else parking lot okay
if you have any case Inc updates or poll
and you have any updates please please
put your a sink updates below for review
within PR this no to the repo thank you
all you're now slightly over time so in
the call and right